math.AG/0001106

HUB-EP-00/03

TUW–00/01

Reﬂexive polyhedra, weights and

toric Calabi–Yau ﬁbrations

Maximilian KREUZER*

Institut f¨ur Theoretische Physik, Technische Universit¨at Wien

Wiedner Hauptstraße 8–10, A-1040 Wien, AUSTRIA

and

Harald SKARKE#

Humboldt Universit¨at zu Berlin, Institut f¨ur Physik, QFT,

Invalidenstraße 110, D-10115 Berlin, GERMANY

ABSTRACT

During the last years we have generated a large number of data related to Calabi–
Yau hypersurfaces in toric varieties which can be described by reﬂexive polyhedra.
We classiﬁed all reﬂexive polyhedra in three dimensions leading to K3 hypersurfaces
and have nearly completed the four dimensional case relevant to Calabi–Yau three-
folds. In addition, we have analysed for many of the resulting spaces whether they
allow ﬁbration structures of the types that are relevant in the context of superstring
dualities. In this survey we want to give background information both on how we
obtained these data, which can be found at our web site, and on how they may
be used. We give a complete exposition of our classiﬁcation algorithm at a math-
ematical (rather than algorithmic) level. We also describe how ﬁbration structures
manifest themselves in terms of toric diagrams and how we managed to ﬁnd the
respective data. Both for our classiﬁcation scheme and for simple descriptions of
ﬁbration structures the concept of weight systems plays an important role.

0
0
0
2

 

n
a
J
 

9
1

 
 
]

.

G
A
h
t
a
m

[
 
 

1
v
6
0
1
1
0
0
0
/
h
t
a
m
:
v
i
X
r
a

HUB-EP-00/03

TUW–00/01

January 2000

1 Introduction

A few years after Calabi–Yau manifolds had found their way into physics it was conjectured that

they should actually come in pairs with opposite Euler number, since an exchange of complex

structure and K¨ahler moduli in physics corresponds to a change of sign in the deﬁnition of the

charge, or, equivalently, an exchange of particles and anti-particles [1, 2]. This phenomenon is

called mirror symmetry. Although the situation is complicated by the fact that there are rigid

Calabi–Yau manifolds whose “mirror string compactiﬁcations” do not have a straightforward

geometrical interpretation [3, 4], the search for the mirror manifolds proved to be an extremely

fruitful enterprise from both the physicists’ and the mathematicians’ perspective [5–7].

The ﬁrst systematic constructions of large classes of Calabi–Yau threefolds as complete

intersections in products of projective spaces [8] did not seem to support the mirror hypothesis

because the resulting manifolds all had negative Euler numbers. But when the attention was

extended to weighted projective spaces, it turned out that the blow up parameters of the

quotient singularities can provide large positive contributions. The ﬁrst substantial list of pairs

of Hodge numbers resulting from constructions of this type [9] was almost mirror symmetric

in the sense that only for a few percent of the Hodge data the respective mirror pair was not

in the list. A complete classiﬁcation [10, 11], however, made the picture worse, and abelian

quotients [12], which make a subclass of these spaces perfectly symmetric [13, 14], did not help

with this problem either.

Batyrev’s construction of toric Calabi–Yau hypersurfaces [15], which is manifestly mirror

symmetric while generalizing the above results, provided a solution to this puzzle.

In this

framework the geometrical data is encoded by a reﬂexive polyhedron, i.e. a lattice polyhedron

whose facets are all at distance 1 from the unique interior point (see below). Toric geometry

turned out to provide a very eﬃcient tool for the analysis of many physical aspects of Calabi–

Yau compactiﬁcations, including the physics of perturbative [16] and non-perturbative [17–

20] topology changing transitions, as well as ﬁbration structures that are important in string

dualities [21, 22].

This made a constructive classiﬁcation of reﬂexive polyhedra a useful and interesting en-

terprise. Our approach to this problem [23] was partly inspired by our experience with the

classiﬁcation of weighted projective spaces that admit transversal quasi-homogeneous polyno-

mials [24].

Indeed, as it turned out, the Newton polyhedra that correspond to polynomials

1

Xi=1

Xi=1

deﬁning CY hypersurfaces in weighted P4 are all reﬂexive [25,26] and provide a canonical reso-

lution of the ambient space singularities (this is no longer true in higher dimensions). Actually,

regardless of the transversality condition, a diophantine equation of the form P niai = d with
positive coeﬃcients ni, d = P ni, and with the set of solutions restricted to ai ≥ 0 gives a

simple way to produce lattice polyhedra with at most one interior point (this is a necessary

condition for reﬂexivity): We may regard this as an embedding of the lattice into a higher

dimensional space with the polyhedron being contained in the ﬁnite intersection of an aﬃne

subspace with the non-negative half-spaces. All lattice points, except for the candidate interior

point, whose coordinates are all equal to 1, are located on some coordinate hyperplane ai = 0.

We may then ask ourselves if all reﬂexive polyhedra are contained in polyhedra that can be

embedded in this way. In the next section we will show that the answer is assertive provided

that we allow for an embedding with higher codimension k − n, i.e. we also consider solutions

to more than one equation of the above form,

k

k

ain(j)

i = d(j),

d(j) =

n(j)

i

,

j = 1, . . . , k − n,

(1)

but with some of the coeﬃcients n(j)
makes our construction work is the fact that there is only a ﬁnite set of coeﬃcients that lead to
lattice polytopes with an interior point. The collections n(j)
i of non-negative numbers are called
weight systems in the case of a single equation and combined weight systems if k − n > 1. If

equal to zero according to a certain pattern. What then

i

we shift our coordinates to xi = ai − 1 the resulting polyhedron lies in a linear subspace of the
i xi = 0, is bounded by xi ≥ −1 and has the origin of
the embedding space as its interior point. These linear coordinates are more useful for many

embedding space determined by Pi n(j)

general considerations wheras the aﬃne coordinates ai are better suited for quickly ﬁnding the

lattice points in a given example.

Let us illustrate with the example in ﬁg. 1 how we can obtain a weight system for a given

reﬂexive polyhedron ∆ with vertices in some n-dimensional lattice M. Reﬂexivity implies that
the dual (or polar) polytope ∆∗ deﬁned in eq. (4) below has its vertices on the dual lattice
N = Hom(M, Z). In our case ∆∗ is already minimal in the sense that we lose the interior point

(IP) if we drop any of its vertices and take the convex hull of the remaining vertices. The set
of vertices of ∇ = ∆∗ can be decomposed into the two triangles (V1, V2, V5) and (V3, V4, V5)
that both contain the IP in their lower dimensional interior. As we will show later, similar

decompositions are always possible for minimal polyhedra. For both triangles the barycentric

2

exchanges ∇ and ∆.

In practice, because of the huge number of solutions, an enumeration of all reﬂexive poly-

hedra seems to be possible only in up to 4 dimensions. This leads to a further simpliﬁcation of

the procedure because in up to 4 dimensions all polytopes ∆ that correspond to a minimal ∇
are reﬂexive [26]. Moreover, ∆ is contained in a larger polytope ˆ∆ if and only if ˆ∆∗ is contained
in ∆∗. Therefore only minimal polytopes for which ∆∗ does not contain any reﬂexive subpoly-

tope are necessary ingredients for our classiﬁcation scheme. We will show that in 4 dimension

there are 308 reﬂexive polytopes that contain all others as subpolytopes, provided that we also

consider sublattices. Finding all relevant lattices is a subtle point and our strategy to solve this

problem will be described below. There are at least 25 additional maximal reﬂexive polytopes

that can be obtained from these 308 objects on sublattices.

While one of the main insights of the ‘ﬁrst superstring revolution’ was the fact that Calabi–

Yau spaces are crucial for string compactiﬁcations, it was found during the ‘second string

revolution’ that ﬁbration structures of Calabi–Yau manifolds are essential for understanding

various non-perturbative string dualities.

In particular, K3 ﬁbrations are required for the

duality between heterotic and IIA theories [27, 28] and elliptic ﬁbrations are needed for F-

theory compactiﬁcations [22,29,30]. Again toric geometry provides beautiful tools for studying
the respective structures. As we will see, the polytope ∆∗
f corresponding to the ﬁber manifests
itself as a subpolytope of ∆∗ with the same interior point, whereas the base space is a toric

variety whose fan can be determined by projecting the original fan along the linear subspace
spanned by ∆∗
f . While we never attempted to give a complete classiﬁcation of structures of this

type, we did create large lists of ﬁbration structures [31, 32].

Our data are accessible at our web site [33], and we plan to make the source code of our

programs available in the near future. Since one of the motivations for writing this contri-

bution was to give useful background material for anyone interested in applying our data, we

would like to brieﬂy mention some older results on our web page that will not be discussed

in the remainder of this paper. These are mostly related to weighted projective spaces and,

in the physical context, to Landau-Ginzburg models [2, 34]. We classiﬁed all 10839 weight

systems allowing transversal quasihomogeneous polynomials [10, 24] with singularity index 3,

leading to Landau-Ginzburg models with a central charge of c=9 and computed the corre-

sponding numbers of (anti) chiral states in the superconformal ﬁeld theories (this includes the
7555 transversal weights for weighted P4). Vafa’s formulas for these numbers [34] inspired the

4

deﬁnition of what Batyrev et al. call string theoretic Hodge numbers [35]. We also extended

these results to arbitrary abelian quotients that leave a transversal polynomial invariant [12]

(and included the modiﬁcations by discrete torsions [36], which correspond to topologically

non-trivial background 2-form ﬁelds in the physical context [37]). Since the Newton polyhedra

are reﬂexive also for abelian quotients, the resulting Hodge numbers (without discrete torsion)

are all recovered in the toric context. Nevertheless our results might be useful when working

in weighted projective spaces, since transversal polynomials in general have larger symmetries

than the complete Newton polyhedra.

We will not discuss Calabi–Yau data obtained by other groups here. An important class

of spaces that we did not consider consists of complete intersection Calabi–Yau varieties. The

classiﬁcation of these objects in products of projective spaces was given in [8], and Klemm

has produced a sizeable list of codimension two complete intersections in weighted projective

spaces which is accessible via internet [38]. Work on toric complete intersections and nef

partitions [39–41] is in progress. Further web pages with relevant information are [42, 43].

In the next section we give a self-contained exposition of our classiﬁcation algorithm and

of the results in 3 and 4 dimensions. In section 3 we discuss the implications of these results

for the geometry of toric K3 and Calabi–Yau hypersurfaces. In section 4 we explain the toric

realization of ﬁbrations where both the ﬁbered space and the ﬁber have vanishing ﬁrst Chern

classes. We discuss how weight systems can be used to encode such ﬁbrations and how this is

related to ﬁbrations in weighted projective spaces. We also provide an appendix with several

tables that summarise some of our results.

2 Classiﬁcation of Reﬂexive Polyhedra

In this section we give a self-contained exposition of our methods and results on the classiﬁcation

of reﬂexive polyhedra, without reference to toric geometry. Nevertheless, as we will see in

the next section, some of the concepts used here, in particular the concept of weights, have

interpretations in terms of geometry.

A polytope in Rn is the convex hull of a ﬁnite set of points in Rn, and for our present

purposes a polyhedron is the same thing as a polytope (in particular, it is always bounded,

which need not be true if a polyhedron is deﬁned as the intersection of a ﬁnite number of half

5

spaces).

We will be interested in the case where we have a pair of lattices M ≃ Zn and N =
Hom(M, Z) ≃ Zn and their real extensions MR ≃ Rn and NR ≃ Rn. A polyhedron ∆ ⊂ MR is

called a lattice (or integer) polyhedron if the vertices of ∆ lie in M.

Deﬁnition: A polytope ∆ ⊂ Rn has the ‘interior point property’ or ‘IP property’, if 0 (the
origin of Rn) is in the interior. A simplex with this property is an IP simplex.

Deﬁnition: For any set ∆ ⊂ MR the dual (or polar) set ∆∗ ⊂ NR = M ∗

R is given by

∆∗ = {y ∈ NR :

hy, xi ≥ −1 ∀x ∈ ∆},

(4)

where hy, xi is the duality pairing between y ∈ NR and x ∈ MR.

If ∆ is a polytope with the IP property, then ∆∗ is also a polytope with the IP property

and (∆∗)∗ = ∆.

Deﬁnition: A lattice polyhedron ∆ ⊂ MR is called reﬂexive if its dual ∆∗ ⊂ NR is a lattice

polyhedron w.r.t. the lattice N dual to M.

The main idea of our classiﬁcation scheme is to construct a set of polyhedra such that every

reﬂexive polyhedron is a subpolyhedron of one of the polyhedra in this set. By duality, every

reﬂexive polyhedron must contain one of the duals of these polyhedra, so we are looking for

polyhedra that are minimal in some sense. In the following subsection we will give a deﬁnition

of minimality that depends only on the way in which a polytope is spanned by its vertices,

without reference to a lattice or details of the linear structure. We will see that this allows

for a very rough classiﬁcation with only a few objects in low dimensions. The corresponding

characterisation of polyhedra can be reﬁned by specifying explicitly the linear relations between

the vertices with the help of weight systems. We will see that these weight systems can be used

in a simple way to ﬁnd the polyhedra dual to the minimal ones and to check whether they can

possibly contain reﬂexive polyhedra; the main criterion here is the existence of a dual pair of

lattices such that a minimal polytope is a lattice polyhedron and the convex hull of the lattice

points of the dual has the IP property. The classiﬁcation of the relevant weight systems leads

to a ﬁnite number of polytopes that contain all reﬂexive polytopes, with the subtlety that only

the linear structure but not the lattice on which some polytope may be reﬂexive is speciﬁed.

In the ﬁnal subsection we solve this problem by showing how to identify all lattices on which

a polyhedron given in terms of its linear structure can be reﬂexive, and present the results of

6

our classiﬁcation scheme.

2.1 Minimal polyhedra and their structures

We will later give various deﬁnitions of minimality, each of which has advantages and disadvan-

tages. Here we deﬁne the weakest form of minimality, but the one that is most useful, where

we forget for the time being about the lattice structure and concentrate on the vertex structure

only.

Deﬁnition: A minimal polyhedron ∇ ⊂ Rn is deﬁned by the following properties:

1. ∇ has the IP property.

2. If we remove one of the vertices of ∇, the convex hull of the remaining vertices of ∇ does

not have the IP property.

Obviously every polytope ∇ ⊂ Rn with the IP property contains at least one minimal

polytope spanned by a subset of the vertices of ∇. Before asking ourselves which minimal

polytopes can be subpolytopes of reﬂexive polyhedra, we will now analyse the possible general

structures of minimal polytopes.

Lemma 1: A minimal polytope ∇ ⊂ Rn with vertices V1, · · · , Vk is either a simplex or contains
an n′-dimensional minimal polytope ∇′ := ConvexHull{V1, · · · , Vk′} and an IP simplex S :=
ConvexHull(R ∪ {Vk′+1, · · · , Vk}) with R ⊂ {V1, · · · , Vk′} such that k − k′ = n − n′ + 1 ≥ 2 and
dim S ≤ n′.

Proof: If ∇ is a simplex, there is nothing left to prove. Otherwise, we ﬁrst note that every vertex

V of ∇ must belong to at least one IP simplex: It is always possible to ﬁnd a triangulation of

∇ such that every n-simplex in this triangulation has V as a vertex (just triangulate the cone
whose apex is V and whose one dimensional rays are V ˜V , where the ˜V are the other vertices
of ∇). As 0 must belong to at least one of these simplices, it must lie on some simplicial face

which then is an IP simplex. Now consider the set of all IP simplices consisting of vertices of

∇. Any subset of this set will deﬁne a lower dimensional minimal polytope: The fact that 0

is interior to each simplex means that it is a positive linear combination of the vertices of any

such simplex, and therefore 0 can also be written as a positive linear combination of all vertices

involved. If the corresponding polytope were not minimal, our original ∇ could not be minimal,
either. Among all lower dimensional minimal polytopes, take one (call it ∇′) with the maximal

7

dimension n′ smaller than n. Rn factorizes into Rn′ and Rn/Rn′ ∼= Rn−n′ (equivalence classes in
Rn). The remaining vertices deﬁne a polytope ∇n−n′ in Rn/Rn′. If ∇n−n′ were not a simplex,
it would contain a simplex of dimension smaller than n − n′ which would deﬁne, together
with the vertices of ∇′, a minimal polytope of dimension s with n′ < s < n, in contradiction

with our assumption. Therefore ∇n−n′ is a simplex. Because of minimality of ∇, each of the
n − n′ + 1 vertices of ∇n−n′ can have only one representative in Rn, implying k − k′ = n − n′ + 1.
The equivalence class of 0 can be described uniquely as a positive linear combination of these
vertices. This linear combination deﬁnes a vector in Rn′, which can be written as a negative
linear combination of ≤ n′ linearly independent vertices of ∇′. These vertices, together with
those of ∇n−n′, form the simplex S. By the maximality assumption about ∇′, dimS cannot
exceed dim∇′.

2

Deﬁnition: For an n-dimensional minimal polytope ∇ with k vertices, an IP simplex structure

is a collection of subsets Si, 1 ≤ i ≤ k − n of the set of vertices of ∇, such that:

The convex hull of the vertices in each Si is an IP simplex,

i=1 Si is a lower dimensional minimal polytope for every j ∈ {1, . . . , k − n},

∇k−n = ∇ and

∇j = ConvexHullSj
Sj \Sj−1

i=1 Si contains at least two vertices.

Corollary: Every minimal polytope allows an IP simplex structure.
Proof: If ∇ is a simplex, this is obvious. Otherwise one can choose Sk−n = S and ∇k−n−1 = ∇′
with S and ∇′ as in lemma 1 and proceed inductively.

2

Lemma 2: Denote by {Si} an IP simplex structure. Then Si −Sj6=i Sj never contains exactly

one point.

Proof: An IP simplex contains line segments V V ′ with V ′ = −εV , where ε is a positive number.

If a simplex S = ConvexHull{V1, · · · , Vs+1} has all of its vertices except one (Vs+1) in common
with other simplices, then all points in the linear span of S are nonnegative linear combinations

of the Vj and the −εjVj with j ≤ s, thus showing that Vs+1 violates the minimality of ∇. 2

The following example shows that an IP simplex structure need not be unique:

Example: n = 5, ∇ = ConvexHull{V1, · · · , V8} with

V1 = (1, 1, 0, 0, 0), V2 = (1, −1, 0, 0, 0), V3 = (−1, 0, 1, 0, 0), V4 = (−1, 0, −1, 0, 0),

V5 = (−1, 0, 0, 1, 0), V6 = (−1, 0, 0, −1, 0), V7 = (1, 0, 0, 0, 1), V8 = (1, 0, 0, 0, −1).

(5)

8

∇ contains the IP simplices S1234 = V1V2V3V4 (in the x1x2x3–plane), S1256 (in the x1x2x4–
plane), S3478 (in the x1x3x5–plane), S5678 (in the x1x4x5–plane) and the 4-dimensional minimal
polytopes ∇123456, ∇123478, ∇125678, ∇345678. Any set of three of the four IP simplices deﬁnes an
IP simplex structure.

Lemma 3: For dimensions n = 1, 2, 3, 4 of Rn precisely the following IP simplex structures of

minimal polyhedra are possible:

n = 1:

n = 2:

n = 3:

2, };

1V ′

{S1 = V1V2};
{S1 = V1V2V3},
{S1 = V1V2, S2 = V ′
{S1 = V1V2V3V4},
{S1 = V1V2V3, S2 = V ′
1V ′
{S1 = V1V2V3, S2 = V1V ′
{S1 = V1V2, S2 = V ′

1V ′

2},
2V ′

3},

2, S3 = V ′′

1 V ′′

2 };

n = 4: As in the ﬁrst column of table 1 in the appendix.

Proof: Recursive application of lemma 1 and use of lemma 2 shows that these are the only

possible structures. Explicit realisations of these structures will be presented later.

2

2.2 Weight systems

Any IP polytope, and therefore any reﬂexive polyhedron, must obviously contain one of the

minimal polyhedra encountered in the last subsection. The structures found there are rather

coarse, so now we have to face the task of suitably reﬁning them in such a way that they become

useful for our goal of classifying reﬂexive polyhedra. In particular, we will ﬁnd that the linear

relations between the vertices of minimal polyhedra can be encoded by sets of real numbers

called weight systems, and we will adress the question of which weight systems can occur if a

minimal polyhedron is a subpolyhedron of some reﬂexive polytope.

The fact that a simplex spanned by vertices Vi contains the origin in its interior is equivalent

these numbers are unique up to a common factor, it is convenient to choose some normalization

to the condition that there exist positive real numbers (weights) qi such that P qiVi = 0. As
such as P qi = 1.
Deﬁnition: A weight system is a collection of positive real numbers (weights) qi withP qi = 1.

9

A weight system corresponding to an IP simplex with vertices Vi is the normalized set of

numbers qi such that P qiVi = 0. A combined weight system (CWS) corresponding to a

minimal polyhedron endowed with an IP simplex structure is the collection of weight systems
q(j)
i = 0 if Vi 6∈ Sj. We call a
i
(combined) weight system rational if all of the qi are rational numbers.

corresponding to the IP simplices Sj occurring there, with q(j)

If a minimal polyhedron ∇ is a lattice polyhedron, a corresponding CWS will always be

rational.

In this case it is possible to normalise the weights as positive integers ni with no

common divisor; then qi = ni/d with d = P ni. We will use both conventions for describing

weight systems. By the deﬁnition of a lattice polyhedron, any lattice on which a minimal

polyhedron ∇ is integer must contain the lattice Ncoarsest generated by the vertices of ∇.

Deﬁnition: Given a minimal polyhedron ∇ ⊂ NR, we deﬁne the lattice Ncoarsest as the lattice
in NR generated linearly over Z by the vertices of ∇ and the lattice Mﬁnest ⊂ MR as the lattice
dual to Ncoarsest.

Lemma 4: If ∇ is a minimal polyhedron with vertices Vi and q a CWS corresponding to an

IP simplex structure of ∇, then:
a) The map MR → Rk, X → x = (x1, . . . , xk) with xi = hVi, Xi deﬁnes an embedding such

b) ∇∗ is isomorphic to the polyhedron deﬁned in this subspace by xi ≥ −1 for i = 1, . . . , k.
c) If q is rational, then Mﬁnest is isomorphic to the sublattice of Zk = {(x1, . . . , xk) integer} ⊂ Rk

i xi = 0 ∀j.

that the image of MR is the subspace deﬁned by Pi q(j)
determined by the equations Pi q(j)
Proof: a) P q(j)
i Vi = 0 implies Pi q(j)

i xi = 0.

i xi = 0. Conversely, the xi determine X because a point
in MR is uniquely determined by its duality pairings with a set of generators (here, the Vi) of

the dual space.

b) follows from the form of the embedding map and the deﬁnition of the dual polytope (4).

c) If X belongs to any lattice M such that ∇ is integer on the dual lattice N, the corresponding

xi must be integer. If the xi are integer, then X has integer pairings with the generators Vi of
Ncoarsest, so X belongs to Mﬁnest.

2

Corollary: An IP simplex structure together with the speciﬁcation of a CWS uniquely deter-

mines a minimal polyhedron up to isomorphism.

Proof: By lemma 4, ∇∗ and hence ∇ is uniquely determined by the CWS.

2

10

As our example after lemma 2 shows, an IP simplex structure need not be unique, so it

is possible that two diﬀerent CWS may correspond to the same minimal polytope. In such a

situation, the weight systems of one CWS must be linear combinations of those of the other

CWS with coeﬃcients that are not all nonnegative. Since all weights must be positive, this

can only happen if there is an IP simplex such that all of its vertices also belong to other IP

simplices in the same IP simplex structure. This can happen only for n ≥ 5, as one can see

by explicitly checking all cases for n ≤ 4. Thus, for n ≥ 5 it might be preferable to work with

equivalence classes of CWS leading to the same minimal polytopes instead of using CWS only.

Deﬁnition: If q is a rational CWS corresponding to a minimal polyhedron ∇, we deﬁne ∆(q)
as the convex hull of ∇∗ ∩ Mﬁnest. We say that q has the IP property if ∆(q) has the IP
property.

Corollary: If a CWS has the IP property, then every single weight system occurring in it also

has the IP property.

Proof: Without loss of generality we can assume that the single weight system is q(1) with
q(1)
i > 0 for i ≤ l and q(1)
i = 0 for i > l. There is a natural projection π from Zk as in lemma 4
to Zl by restriction to the ﬁrst l coordinates. Our construction implies that the projection of the
i xi = 0
and xi ≥ −1. If 0l = π(0k) were not in the interior of the polytope in Zl, then 0k could not be
in the interior of the polytope in Zk.

lattice polytope in Zk is a subpolytope of the lattice polytope in Zl determined byPi q(1)

2

Lemma 5: Let l denote the number of weights of a weight system. Then the following

statements hold:

l = 2: There is a single IP weight system, namely (1, 1).

l = 3: There are three IP weight systems, namely (1, 1, 1), (1, 1, 2) and (1, 2, 3).

l = 4: There are the 95 IP weight systems shown in table 3.

l = 5: There are 184,026 IP weight systems which can be found at our web site [33].

Proof: The classiﬁcation of IP weight systems is based on the study of which integer points are

allowed by lemma 4. Assume that a weight system q1, · · · , ql allows a collection of points with
coordinates xi ≥ −1 as in lemma 4, including the interior point with xi = 0 ∀i. If these points
i=1 aixi = 0 with a6=q, then the weight system must also allow
i=1 aixi < 0 to ensure that 0
is really in the interior. The latter inequality is the one that we actually use for the algorithm:

fulﬁll an equation of the type Pl
at least one point withPl

i=1 aixi > 0 and at least one point withPl

11

Starting with the point 0, we see that unless our weight system is q = (1/l, · · · , 1/l), there
i=1 xi < 0. For l ≤ 5 there are only a few possibilities, and
after choosing some point x1, we can look for some simple equation fulﬁlled by 0 and x1 and
proceed in the same way.

must be at least one point with Pl

If l = 2, any weight system except (1/2, 1/2) would have to allow an integer point with x1 +x2 <
0, x1 ≥ −1 and x2 ≥ −1. Such a point has no positive coordinate and therefore cannot be
allowed by a (positive) weight system.

For l = 3 the classiﬁcation is still easily carried out by hand: Unless q = (1/3, 1/3, 1/3), we

need at least one point with x1 + x2 + x3 < 0. As points where no coordinate is greater than 0
would be in conﬂict with the positivity of the weight system, we need the point (1, −1, −1) (up

to a permutation of indices). Now we note that 0 and (1, −1, −1) both fulﬁll 2x1 + x2 + x3 = 0,
so q = (1/2, 1/4, 1/4) or we need a point with 2x1 + x2 + x3 < 0. The only point allowed by this
inequality which leads to a sensible weight system is (−1, 2, −1), leading to q = (1/2, 1/3, 1/6).

For l = 4 and l = 5 we have implemented this strategy in a computer program that produced

99 and 200653 candidates for IP weight systems, respectively. Finally, explicit constructions

of ∆(q) show that four of the 99 weight systems with l = 4 and 16627 of the 200653 weight

systems with l = 5 do not have the IP property, leading to the results given.

2

Remark: The 95 IP weight systems for l = 4 are precisely the well known 95 weight systems
for weighted P4’s that have K3 hypersurfaces [44,45], whereas for l = 5 the 7555 weight systems
corresponding to weighted P4’s that allow transverse polynomials [10,11] are just a small subset

of the 184026 diﬀerent IP weight systems.

Lemma 6: In dimensions n = 1, 2, 3, 4, the CWS with the IP property are the weight systems

with l = n + 1 given in the previous lemma and, in addition, the following CWS:

n = 2: {(1, 1, 0, 0), (0, 0, 1, 1)}

n = 3: The 21 CWS given in table 2

n = 4: 17320 CWS (cf. the second column of table 1)

Proof: By explicitly combining the structures of Lemma 3 with the IP weight systems of Lemma

5 and checking for the IP property of ∆(q).

2

12

2.3 The classiﬁcation

As we saw in the previous subsections, every reﬂexive polyhedron must contain at least one

minimal polytope corresponding to one of the CWS found there. Thus, by duality, every

reﬂexive polyhedron must be a subpolyhedron of one of the ∆(q) on some suitable sublattice

of the ﬁnest possible lattice Mﬁnest. We start this section with analysing the question of which
dual pairs of lattices can be chosen such that a dual pair of polyhedra is reﬂexive on them.

Then we give various reﬁnements of our original deﬁnition of minimality, and ﬁnally we present

our results on the classiﬁcation of reﬂexive polyhedra.

Given a dual pair of polytopes such that ∆ has nV vertices and nF facets (a facet being a

codimension 1 face), the dual polytope has nV facets and nF vertices.

Deﬁnition: The vertex pairing matrix (VPM) X is the nF × nV matrix whose entries are
Xij = h ¯Vi, Vji, where ¯Vi and Vj are the vertices of ∆∗ and ∆, respectively.

Xij will be −1 whenever Vj lies on the i’th facet. Note that X is independent of the choice

of a dual pair of bases in NR and MR but depends on the orderings of the vertices. If ∆ is

reﬂexive, then its VPM is obviously integer. In this case there are distinguished lattices Mcoarsest
and Ncoarsest, generated by the vertices of ∆ and ∆∗, respectively, and their duals Nﬁnest and
Mﬁnest. Clearly any lattice M on which ∆ is reﬂexive must fulﬁll Mcoarsest ⊆ M ⊆ Mﬁnest.

Lemma 7: If ∆ ⊂ MR ≃ Rn is a polytope with the IP property such that its VPM X is

integer, the following statements hold:
X can be decomposed as X = ˜W · ˜D · ˜U = W · D · U, where ˜W is a GL(nF , Z) matrix, ˜U is
a GL(nV , Z) matrix and ˜D is an nF × nV matrix such that the ﬁrst n diagonal elements are
positive integers whereas all other elements are zero; W , D and U are the obvious nF × n, n × n

and n × nV submatrices.

The lattices M ⊂ MR on which ∆ is reﬂexive are in one to one correspondence with decompo-

sitions D = T · S, where T and S are upper triangular integer matrices with positive diagonal

elements and with 0 ≤ Tji < Tii. Then ∆ as a lattice polyhedron on M is isomorphic to the
polytope in Zn whose vertices are given by the columns of S · U and ∆∗ is isomorphic to the
polytope in Zn whose vertices are given by the lines of W · T .
In particular, ∆ on Mﬁnest
corresponds to D · U, ∆ on Mcoarsest corresponds to U, ∆∗ on Nﬁnest corresponds to W · D and
∆∗ on Ncoarsest corresponds to W .

13

Proof: By recombining the lines and columns of X in the style of Gauss’s algorithm for solving
systems of linear equations, we can turn X into an nF × nV matrix ˜D with non-vanishing
elements only along the diagonal. But recombining lines just corresponds to left multiplication

with some GL(nF , Z) matrix, whereas recombining columns corresponds to right multiplication

with some GL(nV , Z) matrix. Keeping track of the inverses of these matrices, we successively
create decompositions X = ˜W (n) · ˜D(n) · ˜U (n) (with ˜W (0) = 1, ˜D(0) = X and ˜U (0) = 1). We
denote the matrices resulting from the last step by ˜W , ˜D and ˜U .
˜W and ˜U being regular
matrices and the rank of X being n, it is clear that ˜D has only n non-vanishing elements which
can be taken to be the ﬁrst n diagonal elements.

In the same way as we deﬁned an embedding of MR in Rk lemma 4, we now deﬁne an
embedding in RnF such that Mﬁnest is isomorphic to the sublattice of ZnF determined by the
linear relations among the ¯Vi. In this context the Xij are just the embedding coordinates of
the Vj. The nF × nF matrix ˜W eﬀects a change of coordinates in ZnF so that ∆ now lies in the
lattice spanned by the ﬁrst d coordinates. Thus we can interpret the columns of D · U as the
vertices of ∆ on Mﬁnest. Similarly, the lines of W · D are coordinates of the vertices of ∆∗ on
Nﬁnest, whereas U and W are the corresponding coordinates on the coarsest possible lattices.

Denoting the generators of Mcoarsest by ~Ei and the generators of Mﬁnest by ~ei, we have
~Ei = ~ejDji. An intermediate lattice will have generators ~Ei = ~ejTji such that the ~Ei can be
expressed in terms of the ~Ej, amounting to ~Ei = ~EjSji = ~ekTkjSji with some integer matrix S.
This results in the condition Dki = TkjSji. In order to get rid of the redundancy coming from

the fact that the intermediate lattices can be described by diﬀerent sets of generators, one may
proceed in the following way: ~E1 may be chosen as a multiple of ~e1 (i.e., ~E1 = ~e1T11). Then
we choose ~E2 as a vector in the ~e1-~e2-plane (i.e., ~E1 = ~e1T12 + ~e2T22) subject to the condition
that the lattice generated by ~E1 and ~E2 should be a sublattice of the one generated by ~E1 and
~E2, which is equivalent to the possibility of solving TkjSji = Dki for integer matrix elements
of S. We may avoid the ambiguity arising by the possibility of adding a multiple of E1 to E2
by demanding 0 ≤ T12 < T11. We can choose the elements of T column by column (in rising
order). For each particular column i we ﬁrst pick Tii such that it divides Dii; then Sii = Dii/Tii.

Then we pick the Tji with j decreasing from i − 1 to 1. At each step the j’th line of T · S = D,

TjiSii + Xj<k<i

TjkSki + TjjSji = 0,

(6)

must be solved for the unknown Tji and Sji with the extra condition 0 ≤ Tji < Tii ensuring

14

that we get only one representative of each equivalence class of bases.

2

At this point we have, in principle, all the ingredients that we need for a complete clas-

siﬁcation of reﬂexive polyhedra. We simply have to construct all subpolyhedra with integer

VPM of all ∆(q) with q being one of our IP CWS, and apply lemma 7. Both for theoretical

and for practical reasons, however, it is interesting to reduce the number of polyhedra used

as a starting point in our scheme. To this end we will give various reﬁnements of our original

deﬁnition of minimality, preceded by a useful lemma on the structure of ∆(q).

Lemma 8: For n ≤ 4, ∆(q) is reﬂexive whenever it has the IP property.

Proof: This fact was proved in [26] and later explicitly conﬁrmed by our computer programs.

2

Deﬁnition: Let ∇ ⊂ NR be a minimal lattice polyhedron such that ∆, the convex hull of
∇∗ ∩ M, also has the IP property. Then we say that
∇ has the span property if the vertices of ∇ are also vertices of ∆∗.

∇ is lp-minimal: If we remove one of the vertices of ∇, the convex hull of the remaining set of

lattice points of ∇ does not have the IP property.
∇ is very minimal: If we remove one of the vertices of ∇ from the set of lattice points of ∆∗,
the convex hull of the remaining lattice points of ∆∗ does not have the IP property.

A CWS q is said to have one of the above properties if the corresponding ∇ on Ncoarsest has it.
A reﬂexive polytope ∆ ⊂ MR is called r-maximal (and its dual ∆∗ ⊂ NR r-minimal) if it is not

contained in any other reﬂexive polytope.

A CWS q is called r-minimal if ∆(q) is r-maximal.

The name ‘span property’ refers to the fact that our deﬁnition is equivalent to the statement

that the hyperplanes in MR dual to the vertices of ∇ are spanned by points of ∆. The following

lemma clariﬁes the relations between the various deﬁnitions of minimality and the ways in

which these deﬁnitions can be used to reﬁne our classiﬁcation scheme.

It also answers the

question of how many CWS of the various minimality types exist.

Lemma 9:

a) For every reﬂexive polytope ∆ ⊂ MR, there exists at least one CWS q with the span property
such that ∆ is a subpolyhedron of the convex hull of ∇∗ ∩ M and M is a sublattice of Mﬁnest.
b) For every reﬂexive polytope ∆ ⊂ MR, there exists at least one lp-minimal CWS q such that
∆ is a subpolyhedron of the convex hull of ∇∗ ∩ M and M is a sublattice of Mﬁnest.

15

c) If q is very minimal, ∆(q) is not a subpolyhedron of ∆(q′) for any q′ corresponding to a

minimal polytope diﬀerent from the one deﬁned by q.

d) A very minimal polytope is lp-minimal and has the span property.
e) For every reﬂexive polytope ∆ ⊂ MR ≃ Rn with n ≤ 4, there exists at least one r-minimal
CWS q such that ∆ is a subpolyhedron of the convex hull of ∇∗ ∩ M and M is a sublattice of

Mﬁnest.
f) For n ≤ 4, a CWS q is r-minimal if and only if it is very minimal.

g) For n ≤ 3 (but not for n = 4), every lp-minimal CWS has the span property.

h) The very minimal CWS for n = 2 are {(1, 1, 1)}, {(1, 1, 2)} and {(1, 1, 0, 0), (0, 0, 1, 1)}. The

remaining IP weight system {(1, 2, 3)} has the span property but is not lp-minimal.

i) For n = 3 the minimality type is indicated in tables 2 and 3.

j) For n = 4 the numbers of CWS of the diﬀerent minimality types are given in table 1.

Proof: a) By dropping vertices from ∆∗ one can always arrive at a minimal polytope ∇ ⊆ ∆∗

and the corresponding CWS.
b) By dropping lattice points from ∆∗ one can always arrive at an lp-minimal (and therefore
also minimal) polytope ∇ ⊆ ∆∗ and the corresponding CWS.
c) If ∆(q) were a subpolyhedron of ∆(q′) for some q′ other than q, then (∆(q))∗ would contain
(but not be equal to) (∆(q′))∗, which is impossible by the deﬁnition of q being very minimal.
d) By deﬁnition, ∆ ⊆ ∇∗, implying ∇ ⊆ ∆∗. Very minimal implies span: If a vertex of ∇ were
not a vertex of ∆∗, it would be in the convex hull of the remaining lattice points of ∆∗ which
then would be equal to ∆∗ and hence have the IP property, thus violating the assumption that

∇ is very minimal. The fact that very minimal implies lp-minimal is obvious from comparing

the diﬀerent deﬁnitions.
e) With a), we can ﬁnd a CWS q(1) such that ∆ is a subpolyhedron of ∆(q(1)), possibly on
a sublattice. By lemma 8, ∆(q(1)) is reﬂexive.
If q(1) is not r-minimal, ∆(q(1)) is a proper
subpolyhedron of some other reﬂexive polyhedron ∆(1) for which we can ﬁnd a CWS q(2) as
before. As the number of lattice points of ∆(q(i)) increases in every step, this process has to
terminate; thus q(i) must be r-minimal for some i.

f) Because of c), every very minimal CWS is r-minimal. The fact that every r-minimal CWS

is very minimal was checked explicitly by our computer programs.

g) – j) By explicit checks, for n ≥ 3 with the help of our computer programs.

2

To end this section, we now give the results of the application of our classiﬁcation scheme

16

for various dimensions.

Proposition 1: For n = 2 there are 16 reﬂexive polyhedra up to linear isomorphisms. All of

them are subpolyhedra of ∆(q) where q is one of the three very minimal CWS.

Proof: The classiﬁcation of 2-dimensional reﬂexive polyhedra has been established for a while

(see, e.g., [46, 47]) and is easily reproduced within our scheme. The second fact can be checked

explicitly.

2

Proposition 2: For n = 3 there are 4319 reﬂexive polyhedra up to linear isomorphisms. 4318

of them are subpolyhedra of ∆(q) where q is one of the very minimal CWS of tables 2 and 3.
The remaining one is the convex hull of ∇∗ ∩ M, where ∇ is determined by the weight system

(1, 1, 1, 1) and M is a Z2 sublattice of Mﬁnest.

Proof: We explicitly constructed all subpolyhedra with integer VPMs of the ∆(q) coming from

very minimal CWS with the help of a computer program and checked that polyhedra coming

from CWS that are not very minimal are contained in the list of reﬂexive subpolyhedra of the

∆(q) for very minimal CWS. Application of lemma 7 produced the last polyhedron.

2

Proposition 3: For n = 4 there are more than 473.8 million reﬂexive polyhedra up to linear

isomorphisms. In addition to ∆(q) with q one of 308 the r-minimal CWS, there are at least 25

further r-maximal polyhedra.

Proof: Our computer programs have already produced more than 473.8 million diﬀerent reﬂex-

ive polyhedra. The 25 additional r-maximal polyhedra were obtained by applying lemma 7 to

the original 308 r-maximal polytopes and checking for r-minimality of the duals on the various

lattices allowed by lemma 7.

2

3 Geometric interpretation of our classiﬁcation results

We now want to discuss what our results on the classiﬁcation of reﬂexive polyhedra imply for

Calabi–Yau manifolds that are hypersurfaces in toric varieties.

The lattice points of a reﬂexive polyhedron ∆ encode the monomials occurring in the de-

scription of the hypersurface in a variety VΣ whose fan Σ is determined by a triangulation of
the dual polyhedron ∆∗. For details of what a fan is and how it determines a toric variety,

17

it is best to look up a standard textbook [48, 49]. There is one particular approach to the

description of toric varieties, however, which cannot be found there. This is the description in

terms of homogeneous coordinates [50], which is the one most useful for applications in physics,

and which also exhibits in the clearest way the signiﬁcance of the weight systems that we used

in the context of our classiﬁcation scheme. We will brieﬂy present this approach and show how

Calabi–Yau manifolds are constructed in this setup and then we will proceed to explain some

of the consequences of our results in terms of geometry.

Given a fan Σ in NR, it is possible to assign a global homogeneous coordinate system to
VΣ in a way similar to the usual construction of Pn. To this end one assigns a coordinate zk,
k = 1, · · · , K to each one dimensional cone in Σ. If the primitive generators v1, · · · , vK of these
one dimensional cones span NR, then there must be K − n independent linear relations of the

j vk = 0. These linear relations are used to deﬁne equivalence relations of the type

type Pk wk

(z1, · · · , zK) ∼ (λw1

j z1, · · · , λwK

j zK),

j = 1, · · · , K − n

(7)

on the space CK \ ZΣ. The set ZΣ is determined by the fan Σ in the following way: It is the
union of spaces {(z1, · · · , zK) : zi = 0 ∀i ∈ I}, where the index sets I are those sets for which
i ∈ I} does not belong to a cone in Σ. Thus (C∗)K ⊂ CK \ ZΣ ⊂ CK \ {0}. Then
{vi :
VΣ = (CK \ ZΣ)/((C∗)(K−n) × G), where the K − n copies of C∗ act by the equivalence relations
given above and the ﬁnite abelian group G is the quotient of the N lattice by the lattice

generated by the vk. We will usually consider the case where G is trivial. In this approach the

toric divisors Dk are determined by the equations zk = 0.

The construction of a Calabi–Yau hypersurface from a reﬂexive polyhedron proceeds in the
following way: We take ∆ to be a reﬂexive polyhedron in MR, ∆∗ ⊂ NR its dual, and Σ a fan
deﬁned by a maximal triangulation of ∆∗. This means that the integer generators v1, · · · , vK of
the one dimensional cones are just the integer points (except the origin) of ∆∗. The polynomial

whose vanishing determines the Calabi–Yau hypersurface takes the form

ax

Xx∈∆∩M

K

Yk=1

zhvk ,xi+1

k

.

(8)

It is easily checked that it is quasihomogeneous with respect to all K − n relations of (7) with
j , j = 1, · · · K − n. Note how the reﬂexivity of the polyhedron ensures

k=1 wk

degrees dj = PK

that the exponents are nonnegative.

18

By [15], the Hodge numbers h11 and h1,n−2 are known, and in [35] the remaining Hodge
numbers of the type h1i were calculated. For a hypersurface of dimension n − 1 ≥ 2 these
formulas can be summarised as

h1i = δ1i l(∆∗) − n − 1 − Xcodimθ∗=1

+ Xcodimθ∗=i+1

l∗(θ∗)l∗(θ)

l∗(θ∗)! + δn−2,i l(∆) − n − 1 − Xcodimθ=1

l∗(θ)!

(9)

for 1 ≤ i ≤ n − 2, where l denotes the number of integer points of a polyhedron and l∗

denotes the number of interior integer points of a face. These formulas are invariant under
the simultaneous exchange of ∆ with ∆∗ and h1i with h1,n−i so that Batyrev’s construction is
manifestly mirror symmetric (at least at the level of Hodge numbers). For n ≤ 4, the generic

(n−1)-dimensional Calabi-Yau hypersurface in the family deﬁned by ∆ will be smooth [15] and

the meaning of these numbers is unambiguous. For n ≥ 5, the Calabi-Yau variety may have

singularities that do not allow a crepant blow-up. In this case we refer the reader to refs. [35]

for a discussion of the precise meaning of the Hodge numbers resulting from eq. (9).

In the case of a K3 surface there is only one such number, namely h11, which is well known
always to be equal to 20. Contrary to the case of higher dimensional Calabi-Yau manifolds,

this number is not the same as the Picard number, which is given by [15]

Pic = l(∆∗) − 4 − Xfacets θ∗ of ∆∗

l∗(θ∗) + Xedges θ∗ of ∆∗

l∗(θ∗)l∗(θ).

(10)

Mirror symmetry for K3 surfaces is usually interpreted in terms of families of lattice polarized

K3 surfaces (see, e.g., [51] or [52]). In this context the Picard number of a generic element of a

family and the Picard number of a generic element of the mirror family add up to 20. The fact

that the Picard numbers for toric mirror families add up to 20 +P l∗(θ∗)l∗(θ) indicates that

our toric models occupy rather special loci in the total moduli spaces.

If a polyhedron ∆1 contains a polyhedron ∆2, then the deﬁnition of duality implies ∆∗

Therefore the variety determined by the fan over ∆∗
mined by the fan over ∆∗

1 ⊂ ∆∗
2.
1 may be obtained from the variety deter-
2 by blowing down one or several divisors. If we perform this blow-down
while keeping the same monomials (those determined by ∆2), we obtain a generically singular
hypersurface. This hypersurface can be desingularised by varying the complex structure in

such a way that we now allow monomials determined by ∆1. Thus the classes of Calabi-Yau
hypersurfaces determined by polyhedra ∆1 and ∆2, respectively, can be said to be connected

19

whenever ∆1 contains ∆2 or vice versa. More generally, if there is a chain of polyhedra ∆i
such that ∆i and ∆i+1 are connected in the sense deﬁned above, we call the hypersurfaces
corresponding to any two elements of the chain connected.

We can easily check for connectedness as a by-product of our classiﬁcation scheme: For each

new CWS q we check explicitly that at least one of the subpolyhedra of ∆(q) has been found

before. Connectedness of the corresponding list of 4318 polytopes in three dimensions follows

from the fact that this is always the case. Connectedness of all 3-d reﬂexive polyhedra follows

from the fact that the last polytope that we only found on a sublattice contains 679 reﬂexive

proper subpolytopes that were found before.

In the same way all of the four dimensional

polyhedra that we have found so far form a connected web.

As we saw in the previous section, every three dimensional reﬂexive polytope ∆∗ ⊂ NR

contains one of 16 r-minimal polyhedra as a subpolytope on the same lattice. Therefore, the

fan of any toric ambient variety determined by a maximal triangulation of a reﬂexive polyhedron

is a reﬁnement of one of the corresponding 16 fans. In other words, any such toric ambient

variety is given by the blow-up of one of the following 16 spaces (cf.

tables 2 and 3 and

proposition 2):
– P3,
– P3/Z2,
– 8 diﬀerent weighted projective spaces P2
– P2 × P1,
– P2

(1,1,2) × P1,

(q1,q2,q3),

– 3 further double weighted spaces, and
– P1 × P1 × P1.

Each of the three spaces with ‘overlapping weights’ allows two distinct bundle structures: The
ﬁrst one can be interpreted as a P2 bundle in two distinct ways, the second one as a P2 bundle
or a P2
(1,1,2) bundle in two distinct
ways. In each case the base space is P1.

(1,1,2) bundle, and the third one can be interpreted as a P2

Let us end this section with brieﬂy discussing a few of the most interesting objects in our

lists. There are precisely two mirror pairs with Picard numbers 1 and 19, respectively. One of
them is the quartic hypersurface in P3 with Picard number 1, together with its mirror of Picard

number 19, which is also the model whose Newton polytope is the only reﬂexive polytope with
only 5 lattice points. This model corresponds to a blow-up of a Z4 × Z4 orbifold of P3. The

20

blow-up of six ﬁxed lines zi = zj by three divisors each yields 18 exceptional divisors leading to

the total Picard number of 19. The other mirror pair with Picard numbers 1 and 19 consists
of the hypersurface in P3
(1,1,1,3) of degree 6 and an orbifold of the same model, with Newton
polyhedra with 39 and 6 points, respectively. This polyhedron is also one of the two ‘largest’

polyhedra in the sense that there is no reﬂexive polytope in three dimensions with more than

39 lattice points. The other polyhedron with the maximal number of 39 points is the Newton
polytope of the hypersurface of degree 12 in P3
(1,1,4,6). This model leads to the description of
elliptically ﬁbered K3 surfaces that is commonly used in F-theory applications [22,29,30], with
the elliptic ﬁber embedded in a P2
(1,2,3) by a Weierstrass equation. The mirror family of this
class of models can be obtained by forcing two E8 singularities into the Weierstrass model
and blowing them up. The resulting hypersurface allows also a diﬀerent ﬁbration structure

which can develop an SO(32) singularity; thereby this model is able to describe the F-theory

duals of both the E8 × E8 and the SO(32) heterotic strings with unbroken gauge groups in 8
dimensions [53].

In four dimensions there is a unique ‘largest’ object, determined by the weight system

(1, 1, 12, 28, 42)/84. It has the maximum number, namely 680, of lattice points and the corre-

sponding Calabi–Yau threefold has the Hodge numbers h11 = 11 and h12 = 491. The latter
is the largest single Hodge number in our list, and the value of |χ| = |2(h11 − h12)| = 960 is
also maximal, the only other object with the same values being the mirror. F-theory com-

pactiﬁcations of the latter lead to the theories with the largest known gauge groups in six

dimensions [53].

Another interesting object that we encountered is the 24-cell, a self dual polytope with 24

vertices, which leads to a self mirror Calabi–Yau manifold with Hodge numbers (20,20). It has

the maximal symmetry order 1152 = 24 ∗ 48 among all 4 dimensional reﬂexive polytopes and

arises as a subpolytope of the hypercube. It is a Platonic solid that contains the Archimedian

cuboctahedron (with symmetry order 48) as a reﬂexive section through the origin parallel to

one of its 24 bounding octahedra. Note that in our context symmetries are realized as lattice

isomorphisms, i.e. as subgroups of GL(n, Z), and not as rotations.

The polytope with the largest order, namely 128, of Mﬁnest/Mcoarsest is determined by the
weight system (1, 1, 1, 1, 4)/8. For the Newton polytope of the quintic hypersurface in P4, this

order is 125. There is a well known Z5 orbifold of the quintic with Hodge numbers (1,21) which
is quite peculiar from the lattice point of view: Although the N lattice is not the lattice Nﬁnest

21

generated by the vertices of ∆∗, the only lattice points of ∆∗ are its vertices and the IP. Thus
it provides an example where the N lattice is not even generated by the lattice points of ∆∗.

This can only happen in more than 3 dimensions: As a lattice triangle with 3 lattice points

is always regular (i.e.

it has the minimal volume 1 in lattice units) and there are no lattice

hyperplanes between a facet and the IP because of reﬂexivity, the vertices of any triangle of

a maximal triangulation of a 2-dimensional facet of a 3-dimensional polytope provide a lattice

basis.

4 Fibrations

In this section we want to discuss ﬁbrations of hypersurfaces of holonomy SU(n − 1) in n-

dimensional toric varieties where the generic ﬁber is an (nf −1)–dimensional variety of holonomy
SU(nf − 1). In other words, it will apply to elliptic ﬁbrations of K3 surfaces, CY threefolds, CY
fourfolds, etc., to K3 ﬁbrations of CY k-folds with k ≥ 3, to threefold ﬁbrations of fourfolds,

and so on. The main message is that the structures occurring in the ﬁbration are reﬂected

in structures in the N lattice: The ﬁber, being an algebraic subvariety of the whole space,
is encoded by a polyhedron ∆∗
f which is a subpolyhedron of ∆∗, whereas the base, which is
a projection of the ﬁbration along the ﬁber, can be seen by projecting the N lattice along
the linear space spanned by ∆∗
f . We will ﬁrst give a general discussion and then explain how
descriptions in terms of CWS may be useful for identifying and/or encoding ﬁbration structures.

4.1 Fibrations and reﬂexive polyhedra

Assume that ∆∗ contains a lower-dimensional reﬂexive subpolyhedron ∆∗

f = (Nf)R ∩ ∆∗ with

the same interior point. This allows us to deﬁne a dual pair of exact sequences

and

0 → Nf → N → Nb → 0

0 → Mb → M → Mf → 0,

(11)

(12)

and corresponding sequences for the underlying real vector spaces. We can convince ourselves
that the image of ∆ under MR → (Mf)R is dual to ∆∗
f in the following way: We choose a basis

22

ej, j = 1, . . . n of N such that Nf is generated by the ej with 1 ≤ j ≤ nf and deﬁne ei to be the
dual basis. Then

∆f = {(x1, · · · , xnf ) : ∃ xnf +1, . . . , xn with (x1, · · · , xn) ∈ ∆)},

(∆∗)f = {(y1, · · · , ynf ) : (y1, · · · , ynf , 0) ∈ ∆∗},

(13)

(14)

and the duality of these two polytopes is easily checked.

Let us also assume that the image Σb of Σ under π : N → Nb deﬁnes a fan in Nb. This
is certainly not true for arbitrary triangulations of ∆∗. Constructing ﬁbrations, one should

rather build a fan Σb from the images of the one-dimensional cones in Σ and try to construct
a triangulation of Σ and thereby of ∆∗ that is compatible with the projection. It would be

interesting to know whether this is always possible whenever the intersection of a reﬂexive

polyhedron with a linear subspace of NR is again reﬂexive.

The set of one-dimensional cones in Σb is the set of images of one-dimensional cones in Σ
that do not lie in Nf. The image of a primitive generator vi of a cone in Σ is the origin or a
positive integer multiple of a primitive generator ˜vj of a one-dimensional cone in Σb. Thus we
can deﬁne a matrix ri
i ∈ N if πvi lies
in the one-dimensional cone deﬁned by ˜vj and rj
i = 0 otherwise. Our base space is the multiply
weighted space determined by

j, most of whose elements are 0, through πvi = rj

i ˜vj with rj

(˜z1, · · · , ˜z ˜K) ∼ (λ ˜w1

j ˜z1, · · · , λ ˜w

˜K
j ˜z ˜K),

j = 1, · · · , ˜K − ˜n,

(15)

where ˜n = n − nf and the ˜wi
VΣ (and, as we will see, from the Calabi–Yau hypersurface) to the base is given by

j are any integers such thatPi ˜wi

j ˜vi = 0. The projection map from

ri
j
z
j .

˜zi =Yj

(16)

This is well deﬁned: zj → λwj

kzj leads to ˜zi → λwj
kri

j ˜zi which is among the good equivalence

relations because applying π to P wj

kvj = 0 gives P wj

kri

j ˜vi = 0.

A generic point in the base space will have ˜zi 6= 0 for all i, implying zi 6= 0 for all vi 6∈ ∆∗
f .
The choice of a speciﬁc point in VΣb and the use of all equivalence relations except for those
involving only vi ∈ ∆∗
f . Thus the
preimage of a generic point in VΣb is indeed a variety in the moduli space determined by ∆∗
f .

f allows to ﬁx all zi except for those corresponding to vi ∈ ∆∗

23

What we have seen so far is just that VΣ is a ﬁbration over VΣb with generic ﬁber VΣf (this
is actually the statement of an exercise on p. 41 of ref. [48]) and how this ﬁbration structure

manifests itself in terms of homogeneous coordinates. Now we also want to see how this can be
extended to hypersurfaces. To this end note that if vk ∈ ∆∗
f then hvk, xi only depends on the
equivalence class [x] ∈ Mf of x under

x ∼ y

if

x − y ∈ Mb.

(17)

Thus we may rewrite eq. (8) as

p = X[x]∈∆f ∩Mf

a′

[x] Yvk∈∆∗

f

zhvk ,[x]i+1

k

with

a′

[x] = Xx∈[x]

ax Yvk6∈∆∗

f

zhvk ,xi+1

k

.

(18)

In each coordinate patch for VΣb this is just an equation for the ﬁber with coeﬃcients that are
polynomial functions of coordinates of the base space.

Whenever a one-dimensional cone (with primitive generator ˜vi) in Σb is the image of more
than one one-dimensional cone in Σ, the ﬁber becomes reducible over the divisor ˜zi = 0 de-

termined by vi. Diﬀerent components of the ﬁber correspond to diﬀerent equations zj = 0
with πvj = ri
j ˜vi. The intersection patterns of the diﬀerent components of the reducible ﬁbers
are crucial for understanding enhanced gauge symmetries in type IIA string theory [52, 54]

and F-theory [22, 29, 30]. Blowing down the corresponding subvarieties (and hence making the

Calabi–Yau space itself singular) leads to the appearance of non-perturbative enhanced gauge

groups whose Lie algebras are determined by the intersection patterns of the components of the

ﬁbers. In terms of the N lattice, the occurrence of enhanced gauge groups can be easily inferred

by studying the preimage of a one-dimensional cone in Σb. In particular, as noted by Candelas
and Font [55], under favorable circumstances the Dynkin diagram of the corresponding Lie

algebra can be seen directly in the toric diagram in the N lattice.

4.2 Fibrations and weight systems

As for polyhedra, weight systems provide a very useful and economic tool for constructing and

describing ﬁbrations. We only consider toric CY ﬁbrations which require a reﬂexive section
through the origin of ∆∗ ⊂ NR whose dimension is equal to nf for (nf − 1)-dimensional CY-
ﬁbers. In the M lattice this corresponds to a projection onto the dual reﬂexive polyhedron

along an (n − nf )-dimensional subspace. Hence, on either side, we need to specify a linear

24

subspace (Nf)R ⊂ NR or (Mb)R ⊂ MR. This can be done, for example, by singling out vectors
that span the subspace or by representing the subspace as an intersection of hyperplanes.

If the polyhedron is given in terms of some CWS it is natural to try to specify this linear
subspace by using some part of the weight information. Note that a lower index i in a CWS n(j)
corresponds to a vertex of the minimal polytope ∇, or, by duality, to a bounding hyperplane in
the M lattice (which, if ∆ is embedded into Rk, is the intersection of the coordinate hyperplane

i

ai = 0, or xi = −1, with the aﬃne or linear subspace that supports ∆). An upper index

j corresponds to a simplex in the CWS and, hence, to the linear subspace spanned by that

simplex. Actually this can be regarded as a special case of the former correspondence, since the
subspace that is spanned by a simplex Sj is generated by those vectors of ∇ for which n(j)

6= 0.

i

The simplest case is therefore the situation where a subset of the IP simplex structure of

the minimal polytope ∇ provides a weight system for ∆f . In turn, we can engineer ﬁbrations
where the ﬁber corresponds to a certain weight system if we start by generating combined
weight systems q with a given subsystem qf. As usual, one has to check that ∆(q) is reﬂexive,
which in up to 4 dimensions is equivalent to the IP property (in the case of Calabi–Yau 4-fold
CWS with ∆(q) IP but not reﬂexive we can proceed with reﬂexive subpolytopes ∆′ ⊂ ∆(q)).

Because of the additional equations that come from the extended CWS q, the set of solutions
to eq. (1) is smaller than those for qf when we disregard the additional coordinates. Hence the
intersection of ∆∗ with the subspace spanned by the vertices of ∇f contains ∆(qf)∗, but may
be larger. We therefore obtain a ﬁbration if the resulting nf-dimensional polytope is reﬂexive.1

In the case of elliptic ﬁbrations this is always true: We want to show that ∆∗

f = ∆∗ ∩(Nf)R is
reﬂexive. As we saw in section 4.1, ∆f can be identiﬁed with the image of ∆ under MR → (Mf)R.
As the image of 0M under M → Mf is an IP of ∆f , ∆f has at least one IP. Because of the
well known fact that a two dimensional lattice polytope is reﬂexive if it has precisely one IP,
all that is left to show is that ∆f cannot have more than one IP. As ∆∗
f ⊇ ∇f implies ∆f ⊆ ∇∗
f
and ∇f as a lattice polytope with a single IP is reﬂexive, ∇∗
f and hence ∆f has precisely one IP,
i.e. ∆f is indeed reﬂexive. To obtain elliptic ﬁbrations in Weierstrass form, as they are mostly
used in F theory compactiﬁcations [22, 29, 30], we thus only need to take the weight system

qf = (1, 2, 3)/6 as the ﬁber part of a combined weight system and check for reﬂexivity of ∆(q).

It is no surprise that the situation we described does not cover the general case: Given an

IP simplex structure of a minimal polytope ∇f ⊆ ∆∗
it is not always possible to extend it to
f
a simplex structure for a minimal polytope ∇ ⊆ ∆∗. As a simple example in 4 dimensions we

consider the points V1, . . . , V6 ∈ N with coordinates given by the columns of the matrix

.

(19)

(V1, . . . , V6) =


−1

0

0

0

1

1

0

0

1

−1

0

0

−1

0

1

0

−1

0

−1

1

−1

0

−1

−1




The ﬁrst three points provide a weight system (2,1,1) for an elliptic ﬁber such that ∆∗
f

is

supported by the 1–2 plane. V1 is contained in the convex hull of V2, . . . , V6, which is a minimal
polytope ∇ as deﬁned in section 2.1. The weight system for ∇ is q = (2, 2, 2, 1, 1)/8 and we

cannot use (2, 1, 1)/4 as part of a CWS corresponding to a minimal polyhedron ∇ with an IP

simplex structure in the sense of section 2. In this situation it makes sense to use generalized IP

simplex structures where the vertices of the IP simplices are lattice points (but not necessarily
vertices) of ∆∗ and we do not insist on the non-redundancy implied by our original deﬁnition

of an IP simplex structure.

Having made this point we may use the linear relations among the vertices of the simplices
(V1, V2, V3) and (V2, V3, V4, V5, V6) to arrive at the CWS q(1) = (2, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0)/4 and q(2) =
(0, 2, 2, 2, 1, 1)/8. A CWS of this type was not considered in our classiﬁcation scheme because
V1 = (V2 + V3)/2 is redundant when combined with the vertices that correspond to q(2). It
does, however, lead to a perfectly sensible system of equations (1), the convex hull of whose
solutions is ∇∗ (in our example all polytopes are simplices). Actually, for q = (2, 2, 2, 1, 1)/8 we
ﬁnd that (∆(q))∗ has the seven lattice points V2, . . . , V6, 0 and (−1, 0, −1, 0)T , but no reﬂexive
subpolytope. The CWS {q(1), q(2)}, on the other hand, leads to a polytope (∆(q1, q2))∗ with

nine lattice points and the reﬂexive subpolytope that we started with: The addition of V1 reﬁnes
the lattice generated by the vertices of ∇ in such a way that the convex hull of V2, . . . , V6 on
the ﬁner N lattice now contains the additional lattice points V1 and −V1. As an aside we thus
observe that a CWS corresponding to a generalized IP simplex structure may also be used to

encode certain sublattices of Mﬁnest. Probably most polytopes can be directly speciﬁed by using
a generalized IP simplex structure and the corresponding CWS. A counterexample is given by

the Z5 quotient of the quintic at the end of section 3, where the N lattice is not generated by
∆∗ ∩ N. But in practice such a representation is only useful if the number of equations is small.

In any case combined weight systems provide a simple construction for toric ﬁbrations and can

26

always be used to specify reﬂexive sections.

4.3 Toric ﬁbrations and weighted projective spaces

There is a more subtle way in which a ﬁbration structure can be encoded in a weight system. It

only works for codimension 1 ﬁbers, but it is quite interesting for historical and practical reasons.

When string dualities led to interest in K3 ﬁbrations, the ﬁrst examples were constructed in

the context of weighted projective spaces [56,57]. It turned out that these examples are indeed

special cases of toric ﬁbrations in the sense that they correspond to reﬂexive projections of
Newton polyhedra of transversal hypersurfaces in weighted P3 or P4.

Actually, reﬂexive objects of codimension 1 were ﬁrst observed on these Newton polyhedra,

either as reﬂexive facets or as reﬂexive sections through the IP in the M lattice [55]. Since

what we really need for a toric ﬁbration is a reﬂexive section in NR, the question arises whether

there is a reﬂexive projection of ∆ onto one of its facets. A simple necessary condition for this

is provided by the following observations. We work with the embedding space of lemma 4 and

do not distinguish between objects in MR and their images under the embedding map.

Lemma 10:

a) For a polytope ∆ deﬁned by a weight system ni only facets that are supported by a lattice

hyperplane xl = −1 can have interior points.

b) If y = (y1, . . . , yk) ∈ M has yl = −1, yi ≥ 0 for i 6= l, the map πy : MR → MR, πyx =
x + (xl + 1)y has the following properties:
It is a projection to the aﬃne subspace xl = −1, i.e. π2
It respects the lattice structure, i.e. if x ∈ M then πyx ∈ M ∩ {xl = −1},

y = πy and πyMR = MR ∩ {xl = −1}.

The image of ∆ is the corresponding facet of ∆, i.e. πy∆ = ∆ ∩ {xl = −1}.

c) There is a one-to-one correspondence between maps π with the same properties as in b) such

that 0 gets mapped to an IP of the facet with xl = −1 and partitions of the weight nl by the

remaining weights, i.e. nl =Pi6=l yini where the yi are nonnegative integers.

Proof: a) If an interior point of a facet is not on some hyperplane xl = −1 all xi must be

nonnegative, but this is only possible for the interior point of ∆.

b) The ﬁrst two statements follow directly from the deﬁnition of πy. πy∆ ⊇ ∆ ∩ {xl = −1}

follows from the fact that πy is a projection. For πy∆ ⊆ ∆ ∩ {xl = −1} we note that ∆ ∩ {xl =

−1} is the convex hull of the lattice points in {xl = −1} with xi ≥ −1 and that every vertex

27

of ∆ gets mapped to such a lattice point.

c) If π is such a map, then we choose y to be the IP of the facet to which 0 is mapped

(this implies yi ≥ 0 for i 6= l), and the partition of nl follows from the fact that P yini = 0.

Conversely, if y is deﬁned by such a partition we have to show that it is interior to the facet.

This follows from the facts that 0 is interior to ∆ and y = πy0.

2

A necessary condition for the existence of a reﬂexive projection of ∆ onto one of its facets

is therefore that one of the weights ni has a unique partition in terms of the other weights.

Using this criterion we found all such projections for single weight systems with k ≤ 5 by ﬁrst

searching for weights with unique partitions and then checking reﬂexivity of the corresponding

facets. The results are given in table 3 for the case of elliptic K3 surfaces and they are available

on our web page [33] for K3-ﬁbered Calabi–Yau manifolds (cf. table 4).

We can ﬁnd a set of generators for (Nf)R by solving the equation hV, yi = 0 for a general

linear combination V =P cjVj of the vertices Vj of ∇. Since hVi, yi = yi we obtain the solutions

V ′
i = Vi + yiVl for i 6= l. The linear relations among the V ′
i are given by the corresponding
subset of the original weights. In general they do not provide a weight system for the ﬁber
because the points V ′

i need not belong to ∆∗.

Lerche and Mayr [56]. Here V ′

This is easy to see for the class of weights (1, 1, 2n3, 2n4, 2n5) that was considered by Klemm,
2, xi = x1 + x2 for x ∈ M with coordinates
2 is not a primitive lattice vector in N
and can be divided by 2, which leads to the weight system (1, n3, n4, n5) for the K3 ﬁber. The
slightly more complicated example (8, 4, 3, 27, 42)/84 was given by Hosono, Lian and Yau [57].

xi. But P xini = 0 implies that x1 + x2 is even, so V ′

2 = V1 + V2 and hV ′

The ﬁrst weight has a unique partition with y2 = 2 and y3 = y4 = y5 = 0, so that (Nf)R is
spanned by V ′
2 = V2 + 2V1 and Vi with i > 2. This time 8x1 + 4x2 + 3x3 + 27x4 + 42x5 = 0
2/3 ∈ ∆∗ leads to
implies that x2 + 2x1 is a multiple of 3 and the primitive lattice vector V ′
the weight system (4, 1, 9, 14) for the ﬁber, which agrees with the normalized weights for the

ﬁber given in [57]. If more of the coeﬃcients yi are nonvanishing, it is, of course, still possible

to compute a weight system for the ﬁber, but this gets more tedious and we would also lose

the direct connection with the original weights or we would have to introduce many redundant

coordinates in a CWS.

Another strategy for identifying reﬂexive projections of ∆(q) that can be used in the codi-

mension 1 case follows from the fact that such a projection either must be along a line parallel

28

to a facet or onto that facet whenever a facet has an interior point. If the number of facets

with interior points is large enough this allows us to ﬁnd all reﬂexive projections. The result of

this analysis is indicated in the next-to-last column of tables 3 and 4. The K3 surfaces in table

2 are all elliptic, since their combinded weight systems contain 2 dimensional subsystems.

With our strategies to identify reﬂexive projections (onto facets) we generalized the results

of [56, 57] and extended the scope from the transversal case to the complete list of 184026 IP

weight systems, where we could identify 124701 ﬁbrations. The eﬃciency of our approach can

be inferred from the fact that we found 5370 ﬁbrations for the 7555 transversal cases, wheras

only 628 ﬁbrations yielded to the methods of [57].

Acknowledgements: M.K. is partly supported by the Austrian Research Funds FWF grant

Nr. P11582-PHY. The research of H.S. is supported by the European Union TMR project

ERBFMRX-CT-96-0045.

29

Appendix: Various tables

References

[1] L. Dixon, in Superstrings, uniﬁed theories, and cosmology 1987, eds. G.Furlan et al. (World

Scientiﬁc, 1988) p. 67.

[2] W. Lerche, C. Vafa, N. Warner, Chiral rings in N=2 superconformal theories, Nucl. Phys. B324

(1989) 427.

[3] P. Candelas, E. Derrick, L. Parkes, Generalized Calabi-Yau manifolds and the mirror of a rigid

manifold, Nucl. Phys. B407 (1993) 115, hep-th/9304045.

[4] P.S. Aspinwall, B.R. Greene, On the geometric interpretation of N = 2 superconformal theories,

Nucl. Phys. B437 (1995) 205, hep-th/9409110.

[5] P. Candelas, X.C. De la Ossa, P.S. Green, L. Parkes, An Exactly soluble superconformal theory

from a mirror pair of Calabi-Yau manifolds, Phys. Lett. B258 (1991) 118.

[6] P. Candelas, X.C. De la Ossa, P.S. Green, L. Parkes, A pair of Calabi-Yau manifolds as an exactly

soluble superconformal theory, Nucl. Phys. B359 (1991) 21.

[7] A. Strominger, S.-T. Yau, E. Zaslow, Mirror symmetry is T duality, Nucl. Phys. B479 (1996)

243, hep-th/9606040.

[8] P. Candelas, A.M. Dale, C.A. Lutken, R. Schimmrigk, Complete intersection Calabi-Yau mani-

folds, Nucl. Phys. B298 (1988) 493.

[9] P. Candelas, M. Lynker and R. Schimmrigk, Calabi-Yau manifolds in weighted P4, Nucl. Phys.

B341 (1990) 383.

[10] M. Kreuzer, H. Skarke, No mirror symmetry in Landau-Ginzburg spectra!, Nucl. Phys. B388

(1992) 113, hep-th/9205004.

[11] A. Klemm, R. Schimmrigk, Landau–Ginzburg string vacua, Nucl. Phys. B411 (1994) 559, hep-

th/9204060.

[12] M. Kreuzer, H. Skarke, All abelian symmetries of Landau–Ginzburg potentials, Nucl. Phys. B405

(1993) 305, hep-th/9211047.

[13] P. Berglund, T. H¨ubsch, A generalized construction of mirror manifolds, Nucl. Phys. B393 (1993)

377, hep-th/9201014.

[14] M. Kreuzer, H. Skarke, Orbifolds with discrete torsion and mirror symmetry, Phys. Lett. B357

(1995) 81, hep-th/9505120.

[15] V.V. Batyrev, Dual polyhedra and mirror symmetry for Calabi–Yau hypersurfaces in toric vari-

eties, J. Alg. Geom. 3 (1994) 493, alg-geom/9310003.

[16] P.S. Aspinwall, B.R. Greene, D.R. Morrison, Space-time topology change and stringy geometry,

J. Math. Phys. 35 (1994) 5321, hep-th/9311186.

[17] P. Candelas, P.S. Green, T. H¨ubsch, Rolling among Calabi-Yau vacua, Nucl. Phys. B330 (1990)

49.

[18] Finite distances between distinct Calabi-Yau vacua: (Other worlds are just around the corner),

Phys. Rev. Lett. 62 (1989) 1956.

[19] A. Strominger, Massless black holes and conifolds in string theory, Nucl. Phys. B451 (1995) 96,

hep-th/9504090.

33

[20] B.R. Greene, D.R. Morrison, A. Strominger, Black hole condensation and the uniﬁcation of string

vacua, Nucl. Phys. B451 (1995) 109, hep-th/9504145.

[21] S. Kachru, C.Vafa, Exact results for N = 2 compactiﬁcations of heterotic strings, Nucl. Phys.

B450 (1995) 69, hep-th/9505105.

[22] C. Vafa, Evidence for F-theory, Nucl. Phys. B469 (1996) 403, hep-th/9602022.

[23] M. Kreuzer, H.Skarke, On the classiﬁcation of reﬂexive polyhedra, Commun. Math. Phys. 185

(1997) 495, hep-th/9512204.

[24] M.Kreuzer, H. Skarke, On the classiﬁcation of quasihomogeneous functions, Commun. Math.

Phys. 150 (1992) 137, hep-th/9202039.

[25] P. Candelas, X.C. de la Ossa, S. Katz, Mirror symmetry for Calabi–Yau hypersurfaces in weighted

P4 and extensions of Landau–Ginzburg theory, Nucl. Phys. B450 (1995) 267, hep-th/9412117.

[26] H. Skarke, Weight Systems for toric Calabi–Yau varieties and reﬂexivity of Newton polyhedra,

Mod. Phys. Lett. A11 (1996) 1637, alg-geom/9603007.

[27] A. Klemm, W. Lerche and P. Mayr, K3–ﬁbrations and heterotic-type II string duality, Phys. Lett.

B357 (1995) 313, hep-th/9506112.

[28] P.S. Aspinwall and J. Louis, On the ubiquity of K3 ﬁbrations in string duality, Phys. Lett. B369

(1996) 233, hep-th/9510234.

[29] D.R. Morrison and C. Vafa, Compactiﬁcations of F-theory on Calabi–Yau threefolds – I, Nucl.

Phys. B473 (1996) 74, hep-th/9602114.

[30] D.R. Morrison and C. Vafa, Compactiﬁcations of F-theory on Calabi–Yau threefolds – II, Nucl.

Phys. B476 (1996) 437, hep-th/9603161.

[31] A. Avram, M. Kreuzer, M. Mandelberg, H. Skarke, Searching for K3 ﬁbrations, Nucl. Phys.

B494 (1997) 567, hep-th/9610154.

[32] M. Kreuzer, H. Skarke, Calabi–Yau fourfolds and toric ﬁbrations, J. Geom. Phys. 466 (1997) 1,

hep-th/9701175.

[33] M. Kreuzer, H. Skarke, http://hep.itp.tuwien.ac.at/ ∼kreuzer/CY.html
[34] C. Vafa, String vacua and orbifoldized LG models, Mod. Phys. Lett. A4A (1989) 1169;

Superstring Vacua, HUTP-89/A057 preprint.

[35] V.V. Batyrev, D.I. Dais, Strong McKay correspondence, string-theoretic Hodge numbers and

mirror symmetry, Topology 35 (1996) 901, alg-geom/9410001.

[36] M. Kreuzer, H. Skarke, Landau–Ginzburg orbifolds with discrete torsion, Mod. Phys. Lett. A10

(1995) 1073, hep-th/9412033.

[37] C. Vafa, Modular invariance and discrete torsion on orbifolds, Nucl. Phys. B273 (1986) 592.
[38] A. Klemm, http://ars-www.uchicago.edu/ ∼aklemm/HTML/cy.htm
[39] V.V. Batyrev, L.A. Borisov, Dual cones and mirror symmetry for generalized Calabi–Yau mani-

folds, in Mirror Symmetry II (ed. S.-T. Yau), alg-geom/9402002.

[40] V.V. Batyrev, L.A. Borisov, On Calabi-Yau complete intersections in toric varieties, in Proceed-

ings of Trento Conference (1994), alg-geom/9412017.

[41] V.V. Batyrev, L.A. Borisov, Mirror duality and string theoretic Hodge numbers, alg-

geom/9509009.

34

[42] R. Schimmrigk, http://thew02.physik.uni-bonn.de/ ∼netah/cy.html
[43] S. Katz, http://www.math.okstate.edu/ ∼katz/CY/
[44] M. Reid, Canonical 3-folds, Proc. Alg. Geom. Anger 1979, Sijthoﬀ and Nordhoﬀ, 273.

[45] A.R. Fletcher, Working with complete intersections, Bonn preprint MPI/89–35 (1989).

[46] V.V. Batyrev, Higher-dimensional toric varieties with ample anticanonical class, Moscow State

Univ., Thesis, 1985 (Russian).

[47] R.J. Koelman, The number of moduli of families of curves on toric varieties, Katholieke Univer-

siteit Nijmegen, Thesis, 1990.

[48] W. Fulton, Introduction to toric varieties (Princeton Univ. Press, Princeton 1993).

[49] T. Oda, Convex bodies and algebraic geometry (Springer, Berlin Heidelberg 1988).

[50] D. Cox, The Homogeneous coordinate ring of a toric variety, J. Alg. Geom. 4 (1995) 17, alg-

geom/9210008.

[51] Igor V. Dolgachev, Mirror symmetry for lattice polarized K3 surfaces, alg-geom/9502005.

[52] P.S. Aspinwall, K3 surfaces and string duality, hep-th/9611137.

[53] P. Candelas, H. Skarke, F-theory, SO(32) and toric geometry, Phys. Lett. B413 (1997) 63,

hep-th/9706226.

[54] E.Witten, String theory dynamics in various dimensions, hep-th/9503124, Nucl. Phys. B443

(1995) 85.

[55] P. Candelas, A. Font, Duality between the webs of heterotic and type II vacua, Nucl. Phys. B511

(1998) 295, hep-th/9603170.

[56] A.Klemm, W. Lerche, P.Mayr, K3–Fibrations and heterotic-type II string duality, Phys. Lett.

B357 (1995) 313, hep-th/9506112.

[57] S. Hosono, B.H. Lian, S.-T. Yau, Calabi–Yau varieties and pencils of K3 surfaces, alg-

geom/9603020.

35

