0
0
0
2

 
r
a

M
7

 

 
 

3
v
2
1
1
1
0
0
0
/
h
p
-
t
n
a
u
q
:
v
i
X
r
a

There is no spooky action-at-a-distance in
quantum correlations: Resolution of the

Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen nonlocality puzzle

C. S. Unnikrishnan

Gravitation Group, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research,

Homi Bhabha Road, Mumbai - 400 005, INDIA,

and

NAPP Group, Indian Institute of Astrophysics,

Koramangala, Bangalore - 560 034, INDIA

February 1, 2008

Abstract

The long-standing puzzle of the nonlocal Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen
correlations is resolved. The correct quantum mechanical correlations
arise for the case of entangled particles when strict locality is assumed
for the probability amplitudes instead of locality for probabilities. Lo-
cality of amplitudes implies that measurement on one particle does
not collapse the companion particle to a deﬁnite state.

Sixty ﬁve years ago, the most signiﬁcant paper questioning a fundamental
aspect of quantum phenomena was written by Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen
(EPR) [1]. They addressed the question whether the wave-function repre-
sented a complete description of reality in quantum mechanics, and argued
that it didn’t. Bohr’s reply to this paper [2] was not suﬃcient to resolve the
fundamental issues raised by EPR. Decades later, Bohm rephrased the EPR
problem [3] in terms of particles correlated in their spin and this helped enor-
mously in analyzing the problem with clarity. John Bell analyzed the EPR
problem in the early sixties and established the Bell’s inequalities obeyed by

1

any local hidden variable theory for the correlations of entangled particles
[4]. Quantum mechanical correlations calculated using the entangled wave-
function and spin operators violate these inequalities. Experiments, the ﬁrst
of which was by Freedman and Clauser [5] and the most remarkable by A. As-
pect and collaborators [6], have established beyond doubt that there cannot
be a viable local realistic hidden variable description of quantum mechanics
[7]. Further, these results also have been interpreted as evidence for nonlocal
inﬂuences in quantum measurements involving entangled particles. Since no
instruction set carried by the particles from their source of origin (possibly
with the addition of several local hidden variables) can manage to create the
correct correlations observed in experiments, the only way out seems to be
that measurement of an observable on one of the particles in an entangled
pair seems to convey the result of this measurement instantaneously to the
other particle resulting in the correct behaviour of the other particle during
a measurement on the second particle. Of course, the no signalling theorems
in this context prohibit any faster than light signalling using this feature.
Nevertheless, we seem to be stuck with the puzzling nonlocality which is
probably the deepest mystery in the behaviour of entangled systems. In the
quantum mechanical terminology, the measurement of an observable on one
of the particles collapses the entire wave-function instantaneously and nonlo-
cally and the second particle acquires a deﬁnite value for the same observable,
consistent with the correlation determined by the relevant conservation law.
Apart from the disturbing aspect of accepting the concept of nonlocality
without being able to understand its nature, there is serious conﬂict with the
spirit of relativity. As soon as we bring in the concept of one measurement
being inﬂuenced nonlocally by the other, the notion of simultaneity becomes
important since both measurements can be labelled by local times. So, if one
measurement precede the other in one frame, one can always ﬁnd a moving
frame in which the converse it true, the second measurement preceding the
ﬁrst [8].

In this paper we discuss the resolution of the quantum nonlocality puzzle.
The crucial new idea is to assume locality at the level of probability ampli-
tudes instead of at the level of probabilities. For quantum systems which
show wave-like behaviour represented by complex numbers, this seems to
be the physically correct assumption to make. The quantum correlation is
encoded in the diﬀerence of an internal variable for the problem.

Consider the breaking up of a correlated state as in the standard Bohm

2

version of the EPR problem [3]. The two particle go oﬀ in opposite directions
and are in space-like regions. Two observers make measurements on these
particles individually at space like separated regions with time stamps such
that these results can be correlated later through a classical channel. We
assume that strict locality is valid at the level of probability amplitudes.
A measurement changes probability amplitudes only locally. Measurements
performed in one region do not change the magnitude or phase of the complex
amplitude for the companion particle in a space-like separated region.

We assign local rules (probability amplitudes) for the outcome of a partic-
ular measurement on each of the two particles. We also assume the existence
of an internal variable for each of these two particles. The correlation at
source is encoded in the relative value, or the diﬀerence, of this internal vari-
able for the two particles. For simplicity let us call this internal variable
a “phase”, φ. Note that it is not a dynamical phase evolving as the par-
ticle propagates. It is an internal variable whose diﬀerence (possibly zero)
remains constant for the particles of the correlated pair. The value of φ can
vary from particle to particle, but the relative phase between the two par-
ticles in all correlated pairs is constant. Consider φ as a reference for the
particles to determine the angle of a polarizer or analyzer encountered on
their way, locally (we use the terms polarizer and analyzer in a generic way.
They could be Stern-Gerlach like analyzers for spin 1/2 particles). The ﬁrst
particle encounters analyzer #1 kept at an angle θ1 with respect to some
global direction. We denote this angle of the analyzer with reference to φ as
θ. Similarly, the second particle which has the internal phase angle φ + φo,
where φo is a constant, encounters the second analyzer oriented at angle θ2
at another space-like separated point. Let the orientation of this analyzer
with respect to the internal phase angle of the second particle is θ′. We have
θ − θ′ = θ1 − θ2 + φo. (The constant φo characterizes the correlation.)
An experiment in which each particle is analyzed by orienting the analyz-
ers at various angles θ1 and θ2 is considered next. At each location the result
is two-valued denoted by (+1) for transmission and (−1) for absorption of
each particle, for any angle of orientation. The classical correlation func-
tion P (a, b) = 1

value for the measurement and ‘anticoincidence’ denotes those with oppo-
site values. Our aim is to calculate the Bell correlation from our formalism
employing local amplitudes and compare it with the quantum mechanical
prediction obtained from the nonlocal entangled wave function and spin op-
erators.

We specify the local rule for transmission as a complex number, whose
square gives the probability of transmission. The complex amplitude asso-
ciated with particle #1 is C1 = 1

the correspondence between P (a, b) and U(θ1, θ2, φo) is given by the general
expression,

P (a, b) = 2U 2(θ1, θ2, φo) − 1

(3)

Let us consider for discussion, the case of a correlated state of photons
breaking up into orthogonal polarization states. This means that if one pho-
ton is transmitted through an analyzer on one side, the other one will not
transmitted for the same orientation of the analyzer on the other side. So,
perfect anti-correlation is implied for θ1 − θ2 = 0. The Bell correlation calcu-
lated from quantum mechanics for this case is given by − cos(2( (θ1 − θ2)).
That is, if the analyzers are oriented at a relative angle of π/2, perfect corre-
lation is obtained. When the relative angle is π/4, the quantum mechanical
correlation deﬁned in the Bell way is zero, since there are as many coinci-
dences as anticoincidences.

The correlation function we derived give, for the case of the photons

discussed above,

U(θ1, θ2, φo) = cos{(θ1 − θ2) + φo}

(4)

We set φo = π/2 for denoting the correlation of the two orthogonal pho-

tons at source . Then we get

U(θ1, θ2, φo) = cos{(θ1 − θ2) + π/2}

= − sin(θ1 − θ2)

The probability for coincidence detection is

U 2(θ1, θ2, φo) = sin2(θ1 − θ2)

(5)

(6)

Correspondingly, the probability for anticoincidence is 1 − sin2(θ1 − θ2).
We get for the Bell correlation,

P (a, b) = 2 sin2(θ1 − θ2) − 1 = − cos(2((θ1 − θ2))

(7)

This agrees completely with the usual quantum mechanical prediction
derived by applying the relevant spin operators on the correct entangled
state of the two photons.

Another important example is the case of the singlet state breaking up
into two spin 1/2 particles propagating in opposite directions to spatially

5

separated regions. We set φo = π. Then our correlation function is

U(θ1, θ2, φo) = cos{s(θ1 − θ2) + sφo}

1

= cos{

system. In fact, such a variable is not an external input additional to what
is already available in the quantum mechanical description, since the zero of
the phase of a wave-function is unobservable.

All probabilities are guaranteed to be positive deﬁnite in our formalism
since the correlation function is real. The nonlocality puzzle in the EPR cor-
relations is resolved. Strict locality including Einstein locality is valid. An
answer to the EPR query regarding the completeness of quantum description
is found. It seems clear that even after performing a measurement on one
of the particles of an entangled pair, the companion particle cannot be as-
cribed a reality in the sense of Einstein. The companion particle’s quantum
properties remain as unmeasured and as ‘un-collapsed’ as ever, though the
result of a measurement if performed, in the same direction, can be predicted
with absolute certainty. Wave-function collapse in the sense of Copenhagen
interpretation and realization of an outcome happens only during actually
performed measurements and not as a consequence of a measurement on a
subsystem of an entangled system. (I will argue in another paper that the
results of the Popper’s experiment [9, 10, 11] support this view).

The solution presented here resolves the problem, pointed out by EPR,
of simultaneous reality of noncommuting observables.
In fact the solution
denies any reality to an actually unmeasured system. This suggests that
there are physical systems in nature that are beyond the scope of the intu-
itive deﬁnition of EPR reality, just as the Copenhagen school maintained.
The approach we have taken here gives predictions for correlations which are
exactly the same as that would be obtained from the quantum wave-function
and operators, without the apparent nonlocal inﬂuence of one measurement
on the other. The nonlocality apparent in entanglement correlation in quan-
tum mechanics is not an inherent feature, but a conclusion forced on us when
using a restrictive deﬁnition of physical reality.

The same analysis works for particles entangled in other sets of variables
like momentum and coordinate, and energy and time. The results follow from
the fact that all these cases of two particle entanglement can be mapped on
to the spin- 1

C1 =

1

separated into space-like regions. The solution has new physical and philo-
sophical implications regarding the nature of reality, measurement and state
reduction in quantum systems. Our approach shows that the EPR paradox
of simultaneous reality for noncommuting physical variables arise from their
restrictive deﬁnition of physical reality.

By restoring locality into the quantum measurements of entangled system
and removing the undesirable ‘spooky action-at-a-distance’, one of Einstein’s
deepest wishes is realized. But his desire for a tangible concept of reality of
unmeasured quantum systems does not look tenable.

E-mail address: unni@tifr.res.in, unni@iiap.ernet.in

References

[1] A. Einstein, B. Podolsky, and N. Rosen, Phys. Rev., 47, 777, (1935).

[2] N. Bohr, Phys. Rev., 48, 696, (1936)

[3] D. Bohm, Quantum Theory, (Prentice Hall, Englewood Cliﬀs, NJ (1951).

[4] J. S. Bell, Physics, 1, 195, (1965).

[5] S. J. Freedman and J. F. Clauser, Phys. Rev. Lett., 28, 938 (1972); see

Ref. 7 for more references.

[6] A. Aspect, J. Dalibard, and G. Roger, Phys. Rev. Lett., 49, 1804 (1982);

see Ref. 7 for related earlier experiments and more references.

[7] It is diﬃcult to list the vast amount of writings debating the relevant
issues, especially that of nonlocality, in the EPR problem. A recent re-
source for exhaustive search is the recent book, The Einstein, Podolsky,
and Rosen Paradox in Atomic, Nuclear and Particle Physics, A. Afriat
and F. Selleri, (Plenum Press, New York and London), 1999.

[8] See for example, R. Penrose, Emperor’s new mind, pp 370-371, (Vintage,

UK, 1990).

[9] K. R. Popper, in Open Questions in Quantum Physics, Eds. G. Tarozzi

and A. van der merwe, (D. Reidel Publishing Co., 1985).

9

[10] Yoon-Ho Kim and Yanhua Shih, quant-ph/9905039

[11] C. S. Unnikrishnan, Popper’s experiment, uncertainty principle, signal
locality and momentum conservation, to appear in Found. Phys. Lett.,
(2000).

[12] L. Hardy, Phys. Rev. Lett., 71, 1665 (1993).

[13] C. H. Bennet et al, Phys. Rev. Lett., 70, 1895 (1993); M. Zukowski, A.
Zeilinger, M. A. Horne, and A. Ekert, Phys. Rev. Lett., 71, 4287 (1993);
J-W. Pan, D. Bouwmeester, H. Weinfurter and A. Zeilinger, Phys. Rev.
Lett., 80, 3891 (1998).

10

